
# Table of Contents
* Spring Boot
* Core Technologies
    * IoC
    * [Beans](#beans)
        * [Registering to the Spring context](#registering-to-the-spring-context)
            * [`@Bean`](#bean)
            * [`@Component`](#component)
        * Scope
    * Configurations
    * AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming)
* Spring Security
* Tools
    * [Maven](#maven)

# Spring Boot

* Opinionated framework on top of Spring framework with default configurations for a quick backend development.
* Use annotations instead of XML for configuration.

# Core Technologies

## IoC
Manage lifecycle of java objects. Spring context `ApplicationContext` represents the IoC container. Objects that are known to the Spring context gets used by the framework the way it was configured.

## Beans
Objects managed by the Spring framework.

### Registering to the Spring context

#### `@Bean`

* Can be even used to a class not defined in my project.

```java
@Configuration
public class MyConfig {

    //Method name used as the default bean name.
    @Bean(name = "customName")
    public MyClass myClass() {
        return new MyClass();
    }
}
```

#### `@Component`

* Use `@ComponentScan` to scan for `@Component`
* Use `@PostConstruct` to manage the instance after creation

```java
@Component
public class MyClass {

    @PostConstruct
    public void doSomething() {

    }
}

@Configuration
@ComponentScan
public class MyConfig {

}
```

## Configurations

## AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming)
Separating cross-cutting concerns from the business logic code for increasesd code modularity. Cross-cutting concerns are aspects of a program that affect multiple parts of the application, such as logging, security, or transaction management. These concerns can lead to code duplication and tangled code if not handled properly. This modularization helps keep the business logic clean and uncluttered by separating the additional functionalities into aspects.

# Tools

## Maven
It is a project management and build automation tool. Maven projects are configured using a Project Object Model (POM) in a `pom.xml` file. The file contains information such as dependencies, source directory, plugin, etc.

### Build lifecycles

* `clean` - Remove all files generated by the previous build
* `compile` - Turns source files into class files
* `test` - Runs unit tests
* `package` - Creates an artifact such as a JAR, ZIP or WAR file

### Default Directory Layout

* `src/main/java` - Application/Library sources
* `src/main/resources` - Application/Library resources
* `src/test/java` - Test sources
* `target` - Contains all the final products from the build

### Maven Wrapper
Utility script to run the Maven project without having Maven installed. Ensures that the correct Maven version is used, providing consistency across different development environments.

```
./mvnw clean install
```